just doesn't make sense to me that human
beings would stop interacting at all
with source code until we get to like
AGI, I guess, where human beings aren't
going to be doing a lot of different
things. Um, but until then, I think we
need to [music] we need to look at code.
And so then the question is what's the
best user interface for doing that?
[music]
>> [music]
>> Today we're talking with Nathan Sobo,
founder of Zed, who spent nearly two
decades building idees. First building
Atom at GitHub and now Zed. Zed is a
modern IDE written in Rust used by more
than 150,000 active developers and also
creates and maintains the ACP or agent
client protocol which connects different
coding agents to different coding
surfaces including Zed. Nathan shares a
contrarian take. Despite all the hype
around chat and terminal based AI coding
tools, he argues that source code itself
is a language meant for humans to read
and that we'll always need visual
interfaces to understand what AI agents
are doing. We dig into whether LLMs can
actually code, what the richer
collaboration layer between humans and
AI might look like for coding, and
Nathan's vision for turning code into a
metadata backbone where conversations,
edits, and context all hang together.
Enjoy the show.
Nathan, thank you for joining us here
today.
>> Yeah, thanks for having me on.
>> I want to start with a hard-hitting
question. There's a lot of internet
talk, chatter about is this the death of
the IDE? So if you roll back two years,
everyone was coding primarily in the
IDE, right?
>> And now it seems like as people move
towards the terminal and more of these
conversational experiences, there's a
question in the air. Is this the death
of the IDE?
>> Yeah. And I've actually asked myself
that question at different times and you
know different states of anxiety of like
is it the death of the IDE? I've spent
my entire life [laughter] grinding
toward building the ultimate tool for
this and is it not going to matter? Are
these people right? But I after mulling
it over seriously because I definitely
don't want to be goldplating a buggy
whip. I think that those takes are not
realistic. It is mindblowing
that you can sit down at a terminal uh
and speak English with a script talking
to an LLM and make real progress on a
codebase. And there are millions of
people doing that apparently, including
me on occasion. Um, but the problem I
ran into whenever you, you know, claude
code was the thing I think I spent the
most time with, uh, is when it wants to
show you what it just did and you're
reviewing it, you sort of view it
through this 10 line or, you know, tiny
little excerpt in the terminal. Um, and
as soon as you want to see more, what do
you do? Like, and so I think if you
believe that the ID is going to die,
then I think that requires you to
believe that human beings are not going
to need to interact with source code
anymore. Like I don't need to take a
look and see the context of this edit
that the agent just made and all the
different things that it's connected to
um and understand that and load that
into my brain. And I just fundamentally
think that source code is a language
just like natural language is a
language. So we have this revolutionary
new tool for processing natural language
that we've never had. But it's not like
source code is binary that we feed to a
a processor, right? Like it is intended
for human consumption. Like uh one of my
heroes that that I learned a lot from
Harold Abson, he's a computer science
professor. I think he was at MIT. He has
this great quote that I've always loved
which is like programs should be written
for people to read and only incidentally
for machines to execute. H
>> which is an extreme stance because it's
like why are you writing the program if
you don't want a machine to execute it?
There are like a lot of people that
program in HA hasll and stuff that seem
to not actually care about what gets
done with all of this programmatic
mination. I I tend to but I also see a
lot of wisdom in that in that like
fundamentally programs are about us
expressing some abstract process in a
very precise way and there is no better
language for talking about a lot of
different sort of touring complete
programmatic concepts than source code
itself. So, I just doesn't make sense to
me that human beings would stop
interacting at all with source code
until we get to like AGI, I guess, where
human beings aren't going to be doing a
lot of different things. Um, but until
then, I think we need to we need we need
to look at code. And so then the
question is,
>> what's the best user interface for doing
that?
>> And is the best user interface a guey
then?
>> I think so. or or it you know there are
a lot of different ways of representing
an interface to to code. Does it need to
be graphical? I mean there are a lot of
people that are using Vim for example.
Vim's not a a graphical user interface,
but is an interface, right, that's
optimized around presenting source code,
navigating source code, and yes,
sometimes editing that source code
manually. Because I think in the same
way that the best way to understand
software is often looking at the
software, looking at the the best
humanine synthetic language we can
derive for expressing this abstract
process. Sometimes the best way of
expressing it is just to write it. Yeah.
>> Uh directly. And I'm not here to say
that I'm particularly a big fan of
grinding through repetitive work
[laughter]
um or having something that could be
written by an LLM. Like I have no desire
to write that necessarily, but I do
think that they're often often times
still in software where the clearest way
to articulate something is just to write
the code define a data structure. You
know, I could write a sentence to an LLM
describing I want a strruct with the
following four fields um or even zoom
out and describe that on a more abstract
level. But if I know what I want to
express, sometimes source code really is
the most efficient way to do it. And in
that world, a tool designed for
navigating and editing source code still
seems like a really relevant tool. And I
have a feeling that even people that are
heavily vibe coding with a tool in the
terminal are probably running an editor
alongside that tool to inspect what's
going on.
>> You mentioned at the start that you've
been working on IDs for your whole
career. You are a legend in the in the
uh IDA space. Just maybe for for our
listeners just say a word on your
background.
>> When I graduated from college, I decided
I wanted to build my own editor. That
was 2006 that the year after I graduated
college and I've been working my whole
career to build the editor I envisioned
which was always sort of at the time
textmate was a really popular tool. I
learned about textmate from dhh demoing
rails or whatever it was just
lightweight simple approachable fast.
I'd used Emacs, I'd used Eclipse, I'd
used uh the Jet Brains products which
are still really powerful and um all of
them brought something to the table in
terms of either extensibility or
responsiveness or feature richness, but
none of them synthesized all those
things into one package. And so it was
like, yeah, 2006 when I decided I want
to build an editor that has the same
power or more power as the most capable
idees that take 10 years to start up,
you know, and feel kind of sluggish
under my fingertips, but then have the
same kind of responsiveness as a
Textmate or a Vim, but also be really
extensible, but not have to be
extensible in this arcane Vimcript
language where I'm having to have this
like pet that I'm feeding every weekend
or whatever in my spare time to make
sure that you know my Vim configuration
doesn't break. I wrote Adam in Vim. So
anyway,
>> talk about Adam actually and then
lessons from that and then why you
started Zeb. Yeah, the first attempt at
delivering this IDE of my dreams was
Atom and uh I joined GitHub as the you
know first one of the first two
engineers to work on that project and uh
we wanted it to be extremely extensible
and so we decided why don't we build it
on web technology so in the process of
creating atom we built the shell around
atom which we ended up naming electron
and electron uh went on to be the
foundation
>> I just I just caught that reference
Yeah. Uh that was Chris Wanstro's idea
actually, but not mine. Yeah. And so
what we we did is we sort of married
Node.js, which was uh getting really
popular at the time with Chrome and then
delivered this framework that kind of
let you build a web page that looked
like a desktop app.
>> Um and it went on to be really
successful. Adam had its day in the sun.
And then Microsoft uh kind of copied our
idea, took Electron, uh took code they
already had that was running on the web
and moved it over. And then the rest was
history. I mean, VS Code went on to take
over the industry. But at some point,
I'd kind of gotten to the point where I
felt like Adam had run its course. I'd
learned some hard lessons there. Some of
them were just about like how do you
design a data structure to efficiently
represent large quantities of text and
edit it which is a lang you know a
language neutral lesson honestly to some
extent and some of the lessons were
about not inviting people to to bring
code onto the main thread um and destroy
the performance of the application by
just running random extension code. Um
we made it very extensible. We were very
open which sort of made it very popular
quickly and then we drowned under the
the promises we had made that were kind
of premature. But one of the things was
I was just sick of web technology. Like
I remember opening up the the
performance profile that was built built
into Electron Chrome's dev tools
basically and just looking at something
that I was trying to optimize and I'm
just like I need to get inside of
whatever these little lines are in this
in this flame graph and figure out
what's going on inside there. and I just
hit the the ceiling, I guess, on how
fast I can make this thing. And so it
was, yeah, I think 2017 that I decided
we need to start over. Um, that a web
browser is actually not a suitable
foundation for the tool that I really
wanted to build,
>> which had a lot to do with performance,
which sounds like a no big deal. I mean,
but performance is not a feature that
you can really go back and add later. If
you've chosen an architecture, you're
going to accept the performance
capabilities in of that architecture and
and the web wasn't it for me.
>> You built Zed originally to make it
easier for humans to pair program with
other humans,
>> right?
>> That ended up being very convenient as
AI agents came about and humans started
to need to collaborate with AI agents.
Talk about that dynamic a bit. I think
the whole industry has this idea of how
we should all be collaborating together.
And I was actually at GitHub for the
current way that we collaborate becoming
popular. Um, and it's all about being
asynchronous that you kind of go off in
your corner and do a bunch of work, take
a snapshot of that, upload it, and then
in a web browser someone, you know,
writes comments on your snapshot, and
then maybe an hour or maybe a day later,
you reply. And it's this very like email
oriented experience, asynchronous
experience, which when you're all on the
same page. Um, or maybe when you're
working on Linux, which is what Git was
designed for originally, and there's
people all over the world working on
these very disperate things, maybe
that's an appropriate modality. But I
always believed that the best way to
collaborate on software was including a
lot more times where we're in the code
together, writing code together or
talking through code together and
getting on the same page in a format
where we're actually talking to each
other and can interrupt each other and
also relate to each other as human
beings in a way that I just don't see
happening on top of the git based
>> flow. Uh we use Git uh all the time and
we don't do as much code review as a lot
of teams because what we prefer to do is
just talk to each other in real time in
the code but there just wasn't a good
tool that enabled that. You could use
screen sharing, but the problem with
screen sharing is one person is very
much in the passenger seat because you
got a roundtrip keystrokes. And so,
yeah, the two big problems when I not
[clears throat] knowing that AI was
coming, right? The two big problems I
wanted to solve at the outset were
fundamentally better performance. You
know, when you type a key, I want pixels
responding to you on the next sync of
the monitor. So, there's zero
perceptible lag. We're pretty close. I I
can't say we're 100% perfect, but we're
hell of a lot closer than you could ever
get in a web browser.
>> And can you say a word about how you've
achieved that?
>> Yes, I'm on a digression here, but uh
>> go ahead and say your second thing and
then say a word about how you achieve
performance.
>> Um but then the other big pillar other
than performance at the outset was
changing the way that developers
collaborate on software. And so to do
that, I really feel like we need to
bring the the presence of your teammates
into the authoring environment itself in
much the way that Figma did for
designers. Now, designers didn't have a
lot of good options.
They didn't have anything as as good as
Git, for example, as a compelling
alternative. But I still think that
vision of
>> you're in the tool looking at the actual
thing you're creating and there are
other people there with you
saw I wanted to bring to the experience
of creating software and so that's why
it felt appropriate to own the UI on
this deep level. Now onto the rest of
your question about what are the
implications of that for AI. The vision
with Zed was always I want to link
conversations to the code in the
authoring environment where the code's
being written. And so I actually think
that conversations in the code that used
to be kind of a weird idea, right?
Because oh why would you need to have a
conversation in the code? You write it
by yourself and you push a snapshot then
we'll have a conversation on a website
about the code you wrote, right? Um, but
it's starting to feel a lot more
relevant in a world where you're having
this conversation all the time with this
like spirit being or whatnot, right?
[laughter]
>> Ghost.
>> Yeah. All of us, even me included, as a
big fan of this more synchronous mode of
collaboration, um, are having a lot more
conversations about code in the code.
And that's where I see sort of this
snapshot oriented paradigm um really
breaking down. Like when I'm interacting
with an an agent and it goes off and
makes some changes and I want to give it
feedback on those changes, ideally I
want to kind of permanently store the
feedback that I gave on those changes uh
and have a record of that. Um
what tools
there's no sort of git for that if that
makes sense. Right? But I'm not going to
commit on every token the thing emits
and then like do a pull request review
on that, right? And so to be real, like
Zed is very much a work in progress. And
I think to earn the right to deliver
this experience, we first just had to
build a capable editor that someone
would just want to use to create
software on their own. Um, I think we
made a ton of progress there and are now
starting more earnestly on this phase 2
of this fine grained tracking mechanism
that's sort of the equivalent. It's not
exactly how it works, but it's kind of
the equivalent of having a commit on
every keystroke or a commit on every
edit that the agent streams in and then
being able to anchor interaction or
conversation directly to that. So that's
something that the tech we're building I
think is something maybe we could have
built in isolation.
Um but then the problem is well what
experience do you deliver on top of
that? And I always thought the best
possible experience would be this
vertically integrated. We designed the
UI and all the infrastructure top bottom
um to yeah deliver this immersive
ability to interact directly in the
code.
>> Yeah. with another being.
>> And so you've made the choice to make
the IDE almost this Switzerland
for humans to collaborate with different
AI agents,
>> right?
>> Um talk about the role that agentic
coding protocol is that what it is ACP
plays in that in that vision.
>> I really view our job as to provide the
ultimate interface between the human
being, the source code, other human
beings or other artificial human beings
basically. and we built our f a
first-party agent um like earlier this
year and then but as we're doing that
and it's quite challenging as uh you
know tuning the prompts I mean none of
it feels like
challenging in the same ways that
building an IDE is in terms of
algorithmic complexity and you know uh
getting the data structures just right
and making sure that things are
performant the actual like touring
complete software parts of that are
fairly easy. The hard parts are like the
AI parts. And that's still something
that I think
we're learning as a team. Like we come
from a very different perspective.
Meanwhile, I see all these teams um with
that all seem to be quite well funded
from some of the big AI labs like
Enthropic and Google uh Google with
Gemini CLI that they were the first
people that we integrated with. um
claude code. Everyone's building an
agent, it seems, and all these agents
are rendering what I consider to be a
fairly impoverished kind of
terminal-based
experience that would need to be
supplemented with an editor.
>> So the thought is, okay, we've got a
great editor and all these people are
trying to solve this problem like what
needs to happen here is the same thing
that the language server protocol did.
So one great thing that Microsoft did
with VS Code is they took all the
intelligence of the IDE that was
typically bundled in like Jet Brain
style right where the IDE comes
preconfigured knowing everything and
they moved it out to the community. So
the PHP has a language server now and
you know there's uh the TypeScript
language server etc. We wanted to do the
same thing with agents. The thought
being there's probably going to be
different kinds of agents experimenting
in different domains. Maybe there's
certain agents that are optimized for
particular problems. They're agents
competing with each other. So sometimes
one will be the best only to be
leaprogged by another. [clears throat]
Externalizing all that and trying to
democratize that and say, "Hey, whatever
agent you want to use, we want to
deliver a great UI for you to interact
with that agent and your software." Um,
that was the thinking behind it. And so
far it's it's working out better than I
might have expected actually. like um I
didn't really know how many people are
going to resonate with this idea, but
JetBrains got on board. Uh and so that I
think is really exciting. They're
theoretically a competitor, but it's
nice to have someone on the other side.
Um and now there are a bunch of
different agent developers that are
getting on board on the other side. Um
we're going to continue working on our
own agent, but it's nice to be aligned
with all that effort instead of
competing with it.
>> Yeah. Do you vibe code
>> sometimes? [laughter]
But [gasps]
yeah, I mean I have so one successful
case of vibe coding is um we had some
very old like serverside infrastructure
that needed to be replaced. And so I
decided to move all of our serverside
infrastructure to Cloudflare. And I
vibecoded a simulator for the Cloudflare
API. Um, and so basically we have a
trait in Rust that abstracts away
everything Cloudflare can do. And I had
an afternoon basically and an idea
and that was an amazing use case of
agentic coding of just like what did you
>> uh I just described the idea to the
agent. I think I g I fed it some API
docs from Cloudflare's JavaScript APIs
and I said I want to build a Rust Rust
bindings to these APIs, but then I want
to, you know, build an abstraction that
sort of lets me then plug in a simulator
for these APIs as well. And I knew
exactly what I wanted. I had a vision uh
and I didn't have a ton of time to
express that vision. So in the past
maybe I would have either done it myself
which I definitely didn't have time for.
There were other things going on at the
time or written some amorphous document
>> uh trying to or you know try to explain
it to engineers on my team what I had in
mind. But what this vibe coding session
enabled me to do was get somewhere in
between if that makes sense. Like so I
sort of apologetically handed this pile
of generated code to to the guys working
on cloud and was like I generated this.
This is directionally the way that I
want to go. Don't judge me too hard if
you find some weird stuff in here that
like doesn't quite make sense. Like it's
generated just so you know. That was a
huge success though. I mean they were
able to run forward with it.
>> Yeah. I think I maybe avoided the like I
never want to be like, you know, the
boss, the vibe coding boss or whatever,
you know, like
>> why not?
>> What I mean is I want to I want to be
the vibe coding boss that's doing it
well, but I don't want to be the vibe
coding boss who's sort of clueless and
thinks that they've solved 95% of the
problem when really they've solved 5% of
the problem and they're just deluding
themselves. I want to do it in an aware
way and make sure that I'm actually
moving the ball forward and not being
annoying.
>> Yeah.
uh handing off a big mess of slop to
somebody and being like here you go
clean it up my great idea. [laughter]
>> Actually speaking of so your user base
is I you know on the order of 100,000
active developers inside
>> it's 170 I think well anyway depends how
you measure
>> 170,000 active developers inside
>> and they tend to be like pretty hardcore
engineers like you know elite have been
coding for a long time. What is your
user base's overall perspective on AI
and are they embracing it? Are they
using you know I just listened to the
Carpathy interview where he's you know
he uses autocomplete but doesn't really
use the agentic loop as much. What are
what are your users doing in terms of
adopting AI
>> based on the metrics we have which are
not perfect because it's an open- source
IDE. It makes it very pe for people to
opt out. About half of the people using
Zet are using our edit prediction
capability which is you know I'm coding
along and it suggests the next thing. So
very much programmer in the driver's
seat
>> and about a quarter of pe of our active
users are using agentic editing in some
shape or form. M
>> you know we had some haters in the crowd
and I think as we began to embrace AI
there were definitely people who let us
know what they thought thought about
that you know that we weren't whatever
but I don't care about that like hey
this is happening something's happening
here like we're not going to just not go
toward that like
>> I'm not like that and so if they if they
signed up for zed for being a let or
head in the sand or like
>> or I don't know just clinging to
tradition with all our might like we're
not on board like I I want to move
toward the future.
>> We attract a more professional. Yeah.
Like you're saying hardcore audience
because I think at least at the moment
um and again the full vision isn't built
yet. One of the things we have to offer
is this extreme performance while you
know with every passing day the same
features as the other things but just
much better performance. And so I think
as a developer becomes more seasoned,
they start to care about the tactile
experience of the tool they're using
under their hands. You use something 40
hours a day,
>> it starts to bother you when it's
dropping frames or just not being able
to keep up with your with your hands
basically.
>> Yeah.
>> So just the kind of people that tend to
gravitate towards Zed now are the kind
of people that just care about a really
well-crafted fast tool. My daughter goes
to school with a girl. Her mom is a
dentist and she's vibe coding some
software for her dental practice right
now, right?
>> Does she know that she needs a fast
editor that feels good under her
fingers? I don't know. I'd like her to.
I mean, it's kind of my job to I I think
we have bigger plans and there are going
to be things that speak to that wider
audience over time, but for now, the the
people that really care tend to be
people that are quite experienced. Mhm.
>> I remember one of your engineers,
Conrad, wrote this article and you you
texted it to me almost like sheepishly
or apologetically. It was number one
hacker news, why LLMs can't build
software. What is your kind of mental
model for what LLMs are good at in
software versus where they're lacking
and how quickly do you think that's
changing?
>> I'm less convinced that Conrad that LLMs
can't build software. I think his mental
model of the things they're incapable of
is maybe
better than mine or he's just more
confident than I am in his take. Uh I'm
less convinced of what they're not ever
going to be capable of doing, but I can
tell you what they've worked well at in
my own experience and where things get
frustrating or go wrong for me. I
mentioned earlier the generating the
cloud flare. Um,
another earlier experience that I had
pre-agentic, pre-agent, anything, it was
just with GPT4
and I generated the a new backend for
for our graphics framework that we had
to write like so we you were asking
earlier about how we achieve our
performance. One of the things we do is
the entire Zed application is organized
around delivering data to shaders that
run on the GPU that render the entire UI
in much the same way that a video game
>> would render frames of its UI or its
experience. I guess it's not a UI
rendering a 2D UI and with some of the
same techniques that video games use to
render their 3D worlds.
>> Interesting. Um, so anyway, I was
rewriting the graphics back end and
though I did, you know, write the
original, you know, graphics back end,
uh, I was rewriting it. The old one was
like working well enough, it wasn't in
the shape I quite wanted. Um, and so I
was able to just generate like a
rendering pipeline that configured the
GPU and all the different stages and all
these things that like I would have in
the past been searching around on Stack
Overflow or digging around in obscure
documentation to do I was able to just
go cuz all that knowledge I didn't have
it but it's definitely out there like in
the distribution of these models.
Another thing I did during that same
rewrite or like fundamental change of
our UI framework was I wrote a bunch of
procedural macros. And macros
in Rust are really powerful. They're
ways to do things that you can just put
a little annotation at the top of
something and it'll generate all this
code behind the scenes before the
compiler runs. But I never really
learned to write Rust macros. Definitely
not these procedural macros that I
needed to write in order to basically
pull all the ideas from Tailwind CSS
into our Rust graphics framework, which
really delighted me. This idea that
like, oh, we're pulling like these pop
culture kind of like Tailwind web ideas
into the systems programming language
and combining these two things together.
But Tailwind's definitely in the
distribution of the LLM. It knows Rust
well enough and it knew how to generate
these procedural macros that I didn't
know how to generate. And so like faster
than I I never would have even attempted
to do what I did of like okay I'm going
to write some macros that generate a
method for every single Tailwind class
and but by kind of feeding some docs
into it here. I view it as like a
knowledge extruder
>> of like there's all this sort of
generalized knowledge out there and and
sure I could go read about it and learn
about it but no I want it to be like
squeezed out in exactly the shape that I
want it and so that was like a perfect
use case for it I think of
it was all pretty well-known
standard stuff but I just didn't have it
in the shape that I needed. M
>> um so that was like I think what they're
really good at is it's like copy and
paste
>> but way way beyond but you're still sort
of borrowing from the global knowledge
set.
>> Yeah.
>> Where I've gotten more frustrated is
like right now we're working on uh this
Delta DB system which is trying to do
fine grain tracking uh and real time
syncing of individual edits as they
occur that layers on top of git. It's
fun because I it's been a while since I
had some of these moments of just
sitting in front of a problem and just
struggling to like load all the
different constraints that need to be
solved simultaneously in my head and
hold that all in there long enough. LLMs
have not been
>> that helpful. They at least not in
writing the code because the code is not
the constraint when we're solving this.
like
>> yes, we're writing code, but much more
important is the thinking going behind,
you know, what is actually not that many
total lines of code. They're just the
right lines, and I'm proud of how few
lines there are. It's like people get
excited about how much how many lines of
code they're generating, but and for
different kinds of software, maybe that
makes sense. But I'm still using LLMs.
I'm just not using them to write the
code. I'm using them to go explore an
idea or even have it generate some code
that I never intend to run to just like
see how it feels quickly. Um, so it's
not that I don't use them as a inherent
part of my process. It's just like
depending on what I'm doing, I'm not
always so sure it's like going to make
me faster
>> writing code. So just to read that back
to you when the LM are doing something
that's kind of indistribution of their
training data and where you have a good
abstract model of what you know almost
the pseudo code of what you want it to
do the models are actually very good at
implementing the code. Yeah.
>> Once you sort of go out of distribution
or when writing the code is not actually
the task at hand it's actually the the
thinking of what you want the code to
accomplish. Uh then then LLMs are just
not there yet.
>> I think that's right. And
another thing I'll say is I think the
per I'm excited for LLMs to get faster.
I don't know that Haiku for example is
intended to be used just directly like
we have some work to do as tool builders
to figure out when to switch to the
faster model or the smarter model. Um
but in general I think the faster they
can go whilst not being totally silly
unintelligent that's the trick. But I'm
excited for being able to kind of
conjure a diff on demand
>> because I think some of it is just like
if I'm asking the agent to do this
thing, I have a couple different
choices. Like I can kind of sit there
and watch it, which can sometimes be
helpful and sometimes is important
because I'm like stop. [laughter]
Like whatever you're doing right now,
like writing tests I didn't ask you to
write [laughter] that you make pass
while the test I want to make pass is
still not passing. [laughter] Um,
I can go like make a coffee or, you
know, like go take care of some other
task or maybe context switch to some
company level concern or whatever. I
could go try to compete with it
>> and like let it do its thing. Um, but
all of them are like a little annoying.
Like again, I'm someone who's obsessed
with giving fast feedback. Like I
literally engineered the tool to give me
keystroke feedback on the next frame.
And so it's that waiting that I think
has been frustrating for me. But I think
if I could get something almost correct
in a tenth of the time, okay, maybe
we're talking about a shift again.
That's why the jury is very much still
out for me
>> around where it's all going.
>> What do you think is the vision for how
the IDE
ultimately will evolve for we're going
to have lots of these agents. They're
going to become increasingly capable,
>> right? um how does the guey evolve?
>> So there's a couple different pieces of
it. I mean for me the deeper piece is
this notion of treating the ID as this
fundamentally collaborative environment
>> and
honestly what's deployed in zed today is
still pretty alpha quality on that front
>> but we're taking all those lessons and
have very good progress on on a new way
of representing collaboration and the
IDE is going to be the place where
that's all surface so an inherently
collaborative experience to me multiple
humans and multiple agents. The idea
that when you're having a conversation
with an agent, that's potentially
something you could pull other humans
into and use the conversation with the
agent as background context or as a fast
track to getting all the relevant code
you want to talk about or the problem
you want to discuss loaded up in a very
easy to digest way to then pull in a
teammate and have that conversation. And
then the idea of permanence uh being
able to reference locations in the code
in a stable way. Having a continuous
representation of the evolution of the
code rather than this punctuated
snapshot based representation
>> to me is going to be like a fundamental
abstraction that we're going to need to
build
any kind of interaction with the LLMs
around so that we can remember
everything and so that an LLM will be
able to ask about a section of the code
what are all the conversations that
happen behind this code to go plum that
context and I guess the idea is having
codebase be this like backbone on which
all the data related to the code can
hang in a way that it just isn't today.
You can have comments in your code and
you can have stuff tied to snapshots of
your code in GitHub, but for the most
part the code itself
>> is devoid of metadata.
>> Yeah.
>> And so really like unlocking that,
turning the code into this metadata
backbone in the UI is a big piece of it.
Some of the stuff I was showing you is
asking ourselves the question and I
think a lot of people are asking
have looked the same for who knows how
long, right? Like it's the typical
thing. You got the tree on the left, the
tabs in the middle, maybe some git stuff
on the right or maybe the agent panel.
That's where we have our agent panel
today. And it's this very it's evolved
over time uh to solve kind of one human
in one working copy solving one problem
manually maybe with some edit prediction
in the middle. But if if someone really
is working agentically as their primary
like uh means of working, what does it
mean to put the conversation front and
center? And we're not the only ones
thinking about this obviously. There are
other tools that are also exploring
this. The cool thing about us though is
we are a full-blown IDE. And so I really
view it as there's a place for all these
different ways of working. And I
definitely think that there's a very
long lived place for this traditional
way of I'm in a what's going on in this
one working copy and I need to evolve
the state of this copy forward until it
solves my problem. There's a place for
that. But then there is a place I think
for all right you've got several
potential conversations maybe on
different projects uh going on at the
same time. Maybe that becomes less of an
issue when the LLMs get faster. Uh but
even so I think then you're going to be
wanting to do even bigger things. And so
once you have this process that takes
time there's this natural desire to
multitask.
And so there's that, like how do we
manage multiple conversations with
multiple agents? And then how do we make
that conversation
more valuable? And so that's really what
we're pushing on in the mockups we've
been doing. And like right now, I think
we model these conversations as very
much like a chat. There's more we can
do. Let's put it that way. like
>> in the sense that as this conversation's
evolving, you could view it as a chat,
but it's also sort of a a document
that's evolving over time. Uh model is a
conversation, but you could also view it
as a document. And so inside that
document, there are all these references
that are being injected from different
spots in your codebase. Um edits are
occurring, and that's all kind of
getting unrolled over time as this log.
What I really want to do is make the
that document surface uh less of a
readonly artifact if that makes sense.
Like more useful as a primary editing
surface where you could move your cursor
up out of the what do you want to say to
the agent next
>> and up into the previous conversation to
do useful things. So one of the useful
things I want to do is right now when
we're rendering code it's like read
only. What we're working to do now is
when we render a a window into the code
and that code's fresh, you should be
able to edit right there and have that
synchronized with the actual location,
expand the context like you can on a
GitHub pull request, for example. So in
Zed, we have this concept of a
multibuffer, which is taking little
pieces of the code from all over your
codebase and combining them together
into one user interface that you can
edit as if it's a single buffer,
basically. And so I'm really intrigued
at the idea of to what extent is this
conversation that I'm having pulling
code toward me potentially making some
edits and why can't I just reach out and
interact with the code directly inside
the conversation. Um and then also like
when I select between two points can I
review the changes that occurred in that
period of time? So, it's really like a
trying to make that conversation more
than just a chat and more keyboard
navigable in a way that someone with
their Vim bindings could just like
quickly navigate up through the
conversation and make it feel kind of
like an editor, a new kind of editor.
having built this thing from scratch and
having deep control of all the
primitives, an opportunity I'm excited
to go grab is like how can we have this
like new kind of editor. It's not just
showing you a a file in your codebase,
but it's showing you like a conversation
and pieces of all these different files
and you can just reach out and interact
with that
>> as you could in an editor.
>> Super cool.
>> Thanks, Nathan. you've been on a quest
to build the perfect tool for your craft
for for a long time now and and it's
exciting to to see what you've done with
with Zed and I can't wait to see what
you do with with agents uh in the
interface and with Delta DB. Thanks for
joining us today.
>> Yeah, you're most welcome. Yeah, really
had fun.
[music]
>> [music]